Create CLAUDE.md (#1384)
BranchMetrics/android-branch-deep-linking: CLAUDE.md

# CLAUDE.md

This file provides guidance to Claude Code (claude.ai/code) when working with code in this repository.

This is the **Branch Android SDK** for deep linking and attribution. Production code is a single Android library module, `:Branch-SDK`, published to Maven Central as `io.branch.sdk.android:library`. Package root: `io.branch.referral`.

## Modules

> - **`Branch-SDK`** — the published SDK library (`com.android.library`). All production code lives under `Branch-SDK/src/main/java/io/branch/referral/`.

Reviewer: Contradicts the Source layout section below: `io/branch/` also holds `coroutines/`, `data/`, `indexing/`, `interfaces/` and `receivers/`, which lines 15-22 list correctly and exhaustively.

```suggestion
- **`Branch-SDK`** — the published SDK library (`com.android.library`). All production code lives under `Branch-SDK/src/main/java/io/branch/`, most of it in `referral/`.
```

- `branchPluginSupport_`, `branchQRCodeCache_`, `linkCache_`

`initBranchSDK()` is the one-time constructor caller and early-returns if the singleton already exists. `shutDown()` (package-private, test-only) nulls the singleton and resets statics — tests rely on this to reset global state between runs.

### Session init flow (intent → callback)

Callers drive init through the fluent `Branch.sessionBuilder(activity).withCallback(...).init()`. The flow:

1. **Intent parsing** — `readAndStripParam(uri/intent, activity)` runs a chain of extractors (`extractBranchLinkFromIntentExtra`, `extractClickID`, `extractAppLink`, `extractExternalUriAndIntentExtras`, …) that write results into `PrefHelper` (link click id, app link, push identifier, external intent uri/extra, initial referrer). A Branch link in an intent is consumed exactly once, marked by the `BranchLinkUsed` intent extra.
2. **Request selection** — `getInstallOrOpenRequest()` picks `ServerRequestRegisterInstall` vs `ServerRequestRegisterOpen` based on `requestQueue_.hasUser()` (true iff a randomized bundle token is already persisted).

> 3. **Queueing with wait locks** — `registerAppInit()` sets state `INITIALISING` and force-inserts the init request at the front of the queue (or reuses an in-flight self-init request and transfers the callback, to preserve ordering). `initTasks()` attaches `PROCESS_WAIT_LOCK`s so the request won't fire until prerequisites resolve: `INTENT_PENDING_WAIT_LOCK` (until `onIntentReady` at `Activity.onResume`), `INSTALL_REFERRER_FETCH_WAIT_LOCK` (install only), `GAID_FETCH_WAIT_LOCK` (always), and `USER_SET_WAIT_LOCK` (when `withDelay` is used).

Reviewer: `USER_SET_WAIT_LOCK` is attached in `initializeSession` (`Branch.java:1474`, under the `delay > 0` branch), not in `initTasks()`, which starts at 1538 and attaches only the other three.

The other three locks and their conditions are correct, including "(always)" for GAID and "(install only)" for the referrer fetch.

`getLatestReferringParams()` reads `PrefHelper.getSessionParams()`; `getFirstReferringParams()` reads `PrefHelper.getInstallParams()`. Sync variants block on a `CountDownLatch` (≤2500 ms) and must be called off the UI thread.

**Init state machine:** `SessionState { UNINITIALISED, INITIALISING, INITIALISED }`, exposed via `getInitState()`. `INITIALISED` means the SDK has consumed the current intent and can send events.

**Intent lock:** by default the SDK waits for `Activity.onResume` (`intentState_` PENDING→READY via `onIntentReady`) so it captures the freshest intent (e.g. `onNewIntent` single-top). `bypassWaitingForIntent(true)` or `unlockPendingIntent()` are escape hatches. `removeSessionInitializationDelay()` clears the `withDelay` lock.

**Instant Deep Linking (IDL, off by default):** when enabled, `init()` fires the callback synchronously from cached intent params, then nulls the callback and lets the network init run for analytics only.

**Plugin deferral:** `deferInitForPluginRuntime` caches the session builder until `notifyNativeToInit()` is called (used by cross-platform plugins like React Native/Flutter).

### ServerRequest lifecycle and the queue

> `ServerRequest` (abstract) is the base for every API call. It owns the POST/GET body (`params_`), a `Defines.RequestPath`, a set of wait locks (`locks_`), and a retry count. `setPost()` branches on API version: **V1** (`/v1/install`, `/v1/open`, `/v1/url`) puts device fields at the top level; **V2** (`/v2/event/…`, LATD) nests them under a `user_data` object. Subclasses: `ServerRequestInitSession` (→ `ServerRequestRegisterInstall`, `ServerRequestRegisterOpen`), `ServerRequestLogEvent` (V2), `ServerRequestCreateUrl`, `ServerRequestGetLATD`, plus the queue-only operations `QueueOperationSetIdentity` and `QueueOperationLogout` (these are enqueued but are not network requests).

Reviewer: Two things on this line.

The subclass list reads as exhaustive but omits `ServerRequestCreateQRCode` (already named at line 41) and `ServerRequestGetAppConfig` under `validators/`. Eight classes extend `ServerRequest` or `ServerRequestInitSession`.

`BRANCH_API_VERSION` also has a third value, `V1_LATD` (`ServerRequest.java:64`), which is what `ServerRequestGetLATD` returns. `setPost()` branches `if (== V1) ... else ...`, so LATD does nest under `user_data` as described. But elsewhere in `ServerRequest` the checks are explicitly `== V1` or `== V2`, where `V1_LATD` matches neither. Calling it V2 hides that the third value exists.

- **`clearPrefOnBranchKeyChange()`** (triggered when `setBranchKey` sees a different key) does `prefsEditor_.clear()` but deliberately re-writes four values so an in-flight deep link survives: link-click id, link-click identifier, app link, push identifier.
- **Tracking-disabled** (`TrackingController`, or `setConsumerProtectionAttributionLevel(NONE)`) blocks network calls except deep-linking. Disabling clears session/link/referrer prefs but **not** identity or device/bundle tokens. Only requests whose `prepareExecuteWithoutTracking()` returns true are allowed through; init requests strip all PII and set `TrackingDisabled=true` in that mode. There is no `SKIP_QUEUE` mechanism — gating is entirely via `prepareExecuteWithoutTracking()` and the `ERR_BRANCH_TRACKING_DISABLED` checks.
- **One-time writes:** `KEY_ORIGINAL_INSTALL_TIME` is written once (when 0); enhanced-web-link UX type/load-time are consumed once then reset; `postInitClear` resets link/referrer/intent identifiers only when ≤1 init request remains queued.

> - **Retry policy** (`onRequestFailed`): a request is dropped on HTTP 400–451, on `ERR_BRANCH_TRACKING_DISABLED`, when `!shouldRetryOnFail()`, or once `currentRetryCount` hits the no-connection retry max; otherwise it stays for replay. Init failure resets state to `UNINITIALISED`.

Reviewer: The reset is conditional. `ServerRequestQueue.java:720` also requires that no session params are stored yet, so the intra-app-linking case deliberately keeps `INITIALISED`.

## Optional integrations

> Ad-ID / install-referrer / billing / in-app-browser dependencies are `compileOnly` in `Branch-SDK/build.gradle` — the SDK works without any of them and detects them by reflection at runtime. When touching that code, guard every reference so the SDK still builds and runs when the optional dependency is absent (Google/Huawei/Samsung/Xiaomi install referrers, Play Billing, `androidx.browser`).

Reviewer: `Branch-SDK/build.gradle` does not exist (it is `.kts`), and the Google install referrer is not optional.

In `Branch-SDK/build.gradle.kts`, Huawei, Samsung, Xiaomi, Play Billing and androidx.browser are `compileOnly`. Google's is `implementation` at line 34, with a comment above it saying it is included in the build. Guarding it for absence would be guarding something always present.

```suggestion
Ad-ID / Huawei-Samsung-Xiaomi install-referrer / billing / in-app-browser dependencies are `compileOnly` in `Branch-SDK/build.gradle.kts` — the SDK works without any of them and detects them by reflection at runtime. When touching that code, guard every reference so the SDK still builds and runs when the optional dependency is absent. The **Google** Play install referrer is the exception: it is a hard `implementation` dependency and is always present.
```
